I'm Chandrika Joshi and I am in Ilford today and I've come to see a wonderful lady by the name of
Indu Benpavari and it's 28th of March 2024.
I was 4 years old when my brother Ramji Kanji Rajani got engaged to Gurdandas Irji Murjar and his daughter Shanta Bhabhi.
I remember all of this.
So, was your son-in-law born?
I was 7 years old when my brother Ramji got married to my father.
My father was in Africa and my father told me to get busy and I said I won't.
He said, you'll ruin your daughter's life.
So, I was 7 years old when I went to India and my father got married.
So, my father came back to India and my father got married to my other son.
Everything was fine and my father came to Tana.
He came to Tana and I didn't know why he came to Tana because it was cold.
He didn't eat anything.
And the weather was cold.
I asked him, if he could come to my house,
I asked him if he could come to my house,
he said yes, I can come.
So I went to see him,
I went to see him,
the uncle of Santababi,
he said, brother, brother,
I have come to your house,
my father has sent me to Kulsa,
then he said,
take me out,
then
drink water,
then he went to the bathroom,
he was drunk,
he took water,
I don't know if it was five or ten
or something like that,
he was the son of his own brother.
He was your new father?
Yes, my new son.
So your father was there in India?
My father?
Yes, they used to live in India.
You mean your father was in India?
Yes.
My father was a soldier,
my father was the son of Masur's aunt,
right?
Yes.
My sister Masur's?
He was in the village,
my father was a soldier.
Was your father in the village?
You didn't know?
No, no, I didn't know,
but he was from your village.
From Kamina?
Yes, he was from Kamina.
Masur's brother was in the village.
He was here.
Then,
when he was in Kamina,
my father was
what was his name?
My brother was a soldier.
Yes.
Then,
my brother
came to my brother's house,
and my mother was
a soldier.
My mother was a very good teacher,
and she was very good at her studies.
So, she was a soldier.
My father
was a tailor,
he had
two years of experience
and he didn't have any children.
Then, my father came to Africa
and he was a soldier.
Then,
my mother was a soldier.
I told him
that my father was a liar.
He was
a black
soldier.
He was a black
He was a drama
with other women.
He told me all the lies.
What lies?
He was a
very good soldier.
Yes.
My father said,
I will not marry anyone.
My mother said,
I will kill you.
I said,
I will not marry anyone.
I will marry someone
who will marry me.
Then, my father
my brother
my father was married
was married.
They married
and they took my brother
in Africa.
In Kabirah Maido.
Did you go to school
in Kabirah Maido?
Yes, not in Kabirah Maido.
After that, we went to Sarothi.
Yes, we went to Sarothi.
Oh, you went to Sarothi.
My father was a
very good man.
How much did you learn?
Just a little?
No, I didn't learn it completely.
I had met him.
I thought he was a good man.
But he didn't meet me.
He didn't meet you?
Yes, he didn't meet me.
How old were you when you got married?
I was 70 years old.
Okay, you got married then.
Did you see each other or not?
I saw.
You went to India?
I went to India.
I was in Manabha.
I saw the papers.
His name was Indu.
He called me Indu Raja.
He was working in a company.
His name was Prabhudas.
He was a charter accountant.
I came there.
He was married to Indu Raja.
I saw the papers.
I went to India.
I got it from my dad.
It went to my younger brother.
My younger brother's father got married.
My younger brother got married.
They went to India.
Oh, God, right.
They wanted to go there.
My father asked about it.
They went to India.
I was sitting there and I heard my mother speaking to my younger brother.
She said, now he is there, so come quickly.
I was not aware of it.
My mother was a woman of the village.
Her wife was my sister-in-law.
She had a son.
So I went to visit her.
I was there.
My father saw me.
He saw me.
He said, you are doing fine.
I said, yes.
I was there.
He said, yes.
My mother was there.
I was there.
He was there.
He said, go.
How could I leave you alone?
Oh God, right.
So he saw you.
He saw me.
He was there.
My father's uncle, Sundarji, my uncle was there.
You were there.
Sundarji was there.
I was there.
He saw me.
He was wearing a saree.
I went there.
I took orange juice.
I drank it.
Then he said,
let's have an injection.
I was there.
My uncle was there.
He said, you are very handsome.
He said, yes.
I was there.
He said, no.
He kept on saying no.
Then,
Lakshmi said,
I don't know anything.
You saw me.
You said you don't know anything.
I don't know anything.
My parents did.
I used to go to India.
I used to pick oranges from other places.
What did you say?
Because
I used to do everything.
I used to go to the market.
My father was a very good man.
Sundarji was there.
My aunt's daughter.
She came to India.
How old were you?
I was 17 years old.
I went to India.
I went to India and then I got married.
Then you got married?
Yes.
Very good.
When did you
go to stay?
At Saroti?
No, Sarere.
Sarere was the shop.
You went to Sarere.
I went there.
You went there?
Yes.
What did you say?
My father was a teacher.
He was a teacher in school.
I took this shop
from my brother-in-law.
He used to work there.
He used to work in my uncle's shop.
He was a teacher.
I did the shop there.
I did the shop there for
two months.
Then I got the shop.
You went there very often.
Yes.
I did so much work.
Then
I was
one and a half years old.
I was in Laxling.
I built this house.
I did so much work.
In Sarere?
Yes.
I used to climb up and down.
Then I used to buy a bike.
I used to do all that.
I did so much work.
What did you do in the shop?
All the work.
Everything?
All the clothes.
I used to wash clothes.
I used to wash my clothes.
I used to clean the clothes.
I used to dry them.
Everything.
I used to drink
a lot of water.
I used to eat.
I used to drink a lot.
I used to work in the shop.
I didn't know. Then I started eating. I had to work.
Then I missed one thing.
Then I went to Saroti.
Then I came back. Then I stayed here.
I was born here.
Then I was born here.
Then I went to Saroti.
Then I went to the shop.
Then I took a big car and went to the shop.
I slept and took the buttons.
Then I took a cycle and went inside.
Then I took clothes and everything.
Then I went to the shop.
I earned a lot.
You were born in Saroti?
Yes, I was born in Saroti.
Then I went to Sarare.
Then I was born in Saroti.
Then I went to Saroti.
Where did you go to Surin?
Surin, Saroti.
How was your life there?
I had fun.
I was happy.
How did you feel when Ami told you to leave?
I felt a little bit aggrieved.
How did you go to Vites?
Did you go to Vites?
I was in Birmingham.
I went to London.
I was a friend of a friend in Uganda.
I was in the army.
I was in Birmingham.
You were in Bristol.
I was in Bristol University.
I left.
Did you have any problems when you came from Uganda?
Did you have any problems when you left Uganda?
Or can you recall if you were on a hippopter?
Or not?
Did you come late at night?
Vinnie's camp which she lost when she went ashore.
You came after the illness, but you were in the camp, right?
Yes, I was in the camp.
Do you remember the camp?
Yes, the camp.
How was it?
Fine.
Did you have a camp?
Yes, I had a camp.
You must have come home.
Yes, I had come home.
You had come home?
Yes.
And from there you came home?
In Ronda?
Yes, in Ronda.
I stayed there.
How did you feel when you went home in Ronda?
I didn't feel anything, but I did everything.
Did you know how to use the heater?
No.
How was it? Was it a coal stove?
Yes, it was a coal stove.
Yes, coal stove.
Did you keep it there?
Yes, open fire.
Was there no one else in the panic ride?
No, there was no one.
Were you alone?
Yes, alone.
I was sitting in the other car.
Were there no people in the other car?
No, there were people in Igangana.
Igangana.
Yes, Igangana.
So, they were in the other car.
Yes.
And how long were you there in the panic ride?
How long?
I think it was in 1979.
You left in 1978-79.
No, you were in Pankajna Lagan in 1978.
Then you left next year.
Yes, I left for Ritan Lagan Pankajna.
So, how did you get out?
Why did you leave the panic ride?
I made it here.
Okay, so Hitesh's degree was finished and he got a job.
Yes, he got a job.
So, you went with Hitesh to his side.
Then you came to London.
Yes.
Hitesh got a job in Chumswood.
Yes, so you came to London.
So, you had to rent a house in London.
Yes.
You had to rent a house.
Did you have a heart?
Yes.
A little.
So, how did you start your business?
I left for Uganda.
Yes.
I had a house in Patel.
I made everything.
First, I made the bed, the bed, the bed, the bed, the bed.
Then I came back.
Yes.
I came back.
I made the bed.
I was leaving.
I didn't find a bed in Patel.
I didn't find a bed.
I was leaving.
You got a job here.
I got a job.
I did all the work.
Then I got married.
I did it myself.
How did you get married to your daughter?
I married her in Ronda Valley.
I married her in Adif.
I made the kitchen.
Oh really?
You already liked the kitchen.
Yes.
My father had a lot of money.
He used to sell?
He used to sell the shoulder.
I lost my father.
He killed my grandmother.
He was a good man.
He took everything.
Poor thing.
Did he get sad?
Yes.
Then he took my grandmother's body.
Then I remembered.
Your poor thing got sad.
He took everything from his house.
Then I lost my father.
Oh, you lost your father.
Now you...
You used to live in a rented place.
Then your wife and husband got job.
So you started cooking.
Yes.
One day you told me
that you were going to cook in a wedding.
So I asked you,
do you want to do this business?
Who was that?
Marjeth's daughter.
Nithi, right?
Yes.
She was married.
I didn't have a car.
So I told her,
if you want to come to Marjeth's house,
you can go.
She took Manju's daughter.
I knew that she was going to come.
I told her,
you can go.
She took money and went to sell the car.
Me and my brother.
Sonal and Suri.
I was here.
Did you go to Penigrahi?
Yes, I went to Penigrahi.
I came here.
You came to London.
I went there.
I had to do everything.
I had to do the kachori.
I had to do the magas.
I used to do kachori at night.
I used to get up in the morning.
I used to do kachori.
When I got up,
I used to tell my brother,
if someone is there,
do the kachori.
I used to do all the kachori.
Who gave me this?
I used to do it.
Then,
Vanita Lakhani.
Who?
Who was it?
So,
Vanita Lakhani.
Ram Chubsh Das Bhai Lakhani.
He was married to that girl.
He asked her to give it to him.
He asked her to give it to Indu Ben.
So, that was your first job.
Yes, my first job.
I was here.
I used to work here.
Who used to do it?
I used to do it.
I used to go to the register
to learn.
I used to boil milk.
I used to do it.
Oh, gosh.
So, you used to help the children.
Yes, I used to help the children.
Then, I used to learn
and learn.
Then, I used to learn.
Then, I used to sleep with them.
In the morning, in the afternoon.
Khandwheelation.
By morning, we would do Khandwheelation.
And then I would go to the....
My older brother I had with me.
I did all this with the car.
That is how I got application.
I was in first position to learn.
You started there.
Yes, first position.
Then I wouldn't be able to learn this properly.
You couldn't be known by name then.
Yes, yes.
Then we did a lot of things.
Then you did a lot of things in your big weddings.
Yes, yes.
Then you did the same thing in the kitchen, or did you do something in the shop?
Then I did the shop.
Then you did the shop.
Yes, yes.
And you did the shop, then the kitchen was finished.
And how many years did you run the shop?
I am asking Pradhyamna.
Yes.
How long?
We closed the shop.
Yes, we closed it.
For 40 years.
You ran the shop for 40 years.
Yes.
We did it from our home.
So you trained the boys to know them and do the same thing.
And all the boys and all the girls were happy.
All were very happy.
Yes.
All of them.